The game is about a person that found himself in village in kind of fantasy world. The goal changes from survival, as hero advances in his quest, to fix some very evil plot that is going on by unidentified force. The hero will look for ancient knowledge and secret artifacts to fight the unknown rivals.

The player eventually will get invitations to missions, randomly chosen, or predefined, and decide whether to proceed to them or not. The mission is one or more classic rogue-like levels, generated each game. 

Each mission carries outcome - reward or items or only wounds, but it also determines which missions will become available later on. For example, when hero succeeds in killing some scary giant snake, he may be invited to more reptile hunting missions and may end up fighting dragons, but if he finds out that the snake is actually a charmed paladin, he may get quest of bringing evil wizard to justice.

The idea of scenario should be that not all the stuff is what it looks, that power of word can be greater than a sword, and that the human kind is it's own worst enemy, when it's in the run for money and glory.

More gameplay features should be:
hero have some kind of house to recover between missions
no in-mission regeneration - not all wounds will close by themselves
randomly generated levels for missions
there's a calendar of the world, and time passes by
there are predefined events, like annual monster hunt, or wyvern weekend when this particular kind of monster especially agressive
allies may join as house features - for example doctor that speeds up regeneration for some kind of herb.

World
Known world is populated mostly by humans that survived global cataclysm that led to long war between kingdoms. Small families or settlements struggle to survive. Travel is dangerous, but may worth it. Money is great incentive, so tools for survival and food. But even in this situation there are people who will fight for power and try to make others work for them.

Geography
The planet is most probably is of elliptical form, relatively small region in northern hemisphere is populated, but possibly more places were reached by travelers. 

Cataclysm
In magic academy, which now burned to the floor, including all the city it was surrounded by, some experiment went wrong. There were no survivors. Almost instantly started a war, and a lot of blood was spilled. But this was only a beginning of a catastrophe: sicknesses and mutations hit the living. And every living! Common cockroaches became mid-dog sized, rats grew poisonous spike at their tails, some sheep became violent. People went mad, both of magical diseases and seeing what's happening to the world. Magic, on it's side became weak in common. Magi and shamans werewere unable to use even weaker spells and charms. But the magic wasn't gone, its deformed: alchemy became more powerful, amulets started to behave differently and some rituals, almost forgotten, got their power back.

Calendar and weather.
People are maintaining kingdom's common calendar. There are 12 months, and 4 seasons. Winter is cold and bright and sometimes is snowy, spring is bright, summer is hot, is rainy, fall is extremely hot before storm that's starts in last month of it.
It's widely known that certain things happen on certain dates. Wyverns' mating season makes them highly dangerous, mid-months nights are magical and winter-spring will cause peaceful behavior in forest animals. 
There are three moons around the planet - Mun, Lun and Sput. Each moon have it's period. each time the moon is close to planet or in it's farthest spot - there are magical effects on those days. when 2 or 3(very rare) moons happen to be in special positions the effects are multiplied in power.

Character